Our air handling middleware is now aware of the type of air that is dealing with.
So now we need to inspect each of these different errors, somehow formulate a response and send it
back to the user.
But as a quick reminder, the entire reason we got into this entire discussion was we wanted to make
sure that all these different services and all these different kinds of errors are always going to result
in the exact same structure of air.
We never actually sat down and discussed exactly what the structure of that response should look like.
So let's do that right now.
This is going to be the common response structure for all errors we have inside our application.
So no matter what the error is, no matter the reason for it, no matter the server that it is coming
from, we're always going to send back into object that has an heirs property.
And then inside there is going to be an array of objects.
Each of those objects will have a message that describes the era that occurred and optionally will have
a field that refers to the what this era is tied to.
So, for example, if there's an issue with some email address, we would have a field of email and
a message of invalid email or something similar to that.
Now note that this is in kind of typescript interface syntax right here.
So you'll notice the empty brackets that I have right here.
That means that this object is going to be a array of objects with that exact structure.
So errors is going to be an array of objects.
And each of those objects are required to have a message property that is a string and possibly optionally
a field that is a string as well.
So again, this is the common structure we're going to have everywhere inside of our application.
For heirs, of course.
So when we talk about doing some actual handling or generation of response inside of our air handling
middleware, we're not actually just going to take the reasons property off of, say, the request validation
error or just the reason property off the database connection error.
Instead, we want to make sure that we take these errors and the reason or messaging around them and
form them all into this common response structure.
So let's try doing that right now back inside of our middleware.
So here's our middleware.
We need to go around to each of these different if statements.
So if statement one and if statement two, we're going to take a look at the air that just appeared
inside of our middleware.
We're going to extract some details about that air.
We're going to massage them essentially or transform them into this exact format right here and then
send the response back to the user.
So we're going to first start off with our instance of right here of request, validation, error.
Let's get a quick reminder on what all the different error messaging inside there looks like.
So I'm going to go to the definition of request validation error.
And as you'll recall, this thing is going to have an errors property assigned to it.
That's going to be an array of validation error and a validation error if we hover over it.
You'll recall as a program, property, a message, location and value.
So we need to take this ers array right here and we're going to transform it into this structure right
here.
That's what we have to do back inside of our middleware.
So inside of my middleware.
I'm going to first define a variable called formatted errors and I'll get that from error.
So that's our request validation error.
Dot Air's dot map.
So we will map over each air.
And for each error, we're going to make sure that we return an object that has a message and possibly
a field as well.
So I will return.
Message.
The value from that is going to come from error message and field, and the value for that will come
from error dot.
Harambe.
So again, just to make sure that step was really clear, we took all the errors.
Remember, this is the information that we wanted to communicate from our route handler over to the
area handling middleware.
We wanted to take that array of validation errors that we got back from Express Validator and we wanted
to transform it into this structure right here.
And that's what we are doing with this mapping statement.
So now that we've built out this list of formatted errors, we can take it and send it back to the user.
So I'll put in a return because we want to return early and not execute anything else inside of here.
And we'll do a rest status.
400.
And then we will send.
An object.
That has a list of errors.
As formatted airs like so.
Just be clear.
I said that we had to transform the errors inside of our request validation error into this structure
right here.
Just to be really precise, what we really just did with that mapping statement was essentially generate
that array of objects, and that's why we took the result of that.
So that's the array of objects.
We threw them into this object with errors to make sure that we conform to this structure right here.
All right, so let's save this.
Well, then go over to Boseman and do a quick test.
So I want to test out that invalid request and alert.
I'm going to make sure I put in an invalid email.
I'll send this off.
And there we go.
So you'll notice that we now have an object.
It has an Ayres property.
And then inside there is an array of objects.
Each object has a message and possibly a field as well.
So now our response coming back from our error handling middleware.
When we get a error of type request, validation error is going to always conform to this exact error
response structure.
Because remember, we want to make sure that every single error that we ever send back to our React
app is always going to follow this structure.
So the React app does not need to know how to implement 50 different error parsing methods.
Okay.
So we're pretty much going to repeat the same exact process or something very similar to it for our
database connection here now.
So in this case, I'm going to return early because I don't want to run anything else inside of here.
I'll do a resident status.
In this case, it's not really appropriate to use a status code of 400 400 means bad request, which
usually indicates that the user sent us some bad data.
In this case, if we have a database connection here that's really indicating that there is something
wrong with our server and so we should really use a 500 status code for that or something similar.
So we could always look up our list of HTTP.
Status codes.
And it might be a little bit more appropriate to do something like a 500 era in this case to say, hey,
sorry, something internally is not quite right.
Or maybe even a 503.
Either one?
Totally.
Fine.
Let's just go with the 500 in this case.
And then I'll send again the exact same structure.
So we'll do airs.
Let's go and get a reminder of all the data that is available to us inside of database connection here.
So go back to that area definition here is database connection error right here.
And you'll recall that in this case we've got that reason property that is storing the reason that we
just threw this database connection error.
So in this case.
We can't send back an array that will create manually.
Inside there.
I'll just give it a message and I'll assign to message e r dot reason like so.
So again, we still have that same exact structure that we said that we want to have for every single
response we've got our.
Array of objects where each one has a message and possibly a field.
In this case, there's no field to tie to our message.
So we are not including that field.
Yes.
Let's save this.
We'll go back over to Postman and do another test.
So inside of Postman, I'm going to update my email again.
I'm going to put in a valid email to make sure that I get the database connection error.
I'll send this off.
And now we get a 500 internal server error and I've got the exact same structure as before.
Awesome.
Now, last thing we need to take care of.
Is the final response type right here.
So if we don't understand the error that just came in, if this is just some generic error that we didn't
really plan on, we still need to make sure that this follows the same structure that we said we were
going to follow for everything else.
So that same kind of errors, that's an array of objects.
Right now, it's just sending back a single object that has a message property.
We can replace that with airs.
I'll put in an array.
I'll give it one object with a message and we can either just try to take the message property off the
incoming air, or we could put in a more generic thing.
Just something like.
Something went wrong or something like that.
Okay.
So let's save this.
And we'll just do one last test, even though we don't really have the ability to really test out that
final error.
I'll just send and make sure that I still have everything working.
Yeah, it looks like it's still working.
Okay.
So at this point in time, we've now seen kind of the entire start to finish.
We've seen that we wanted to have these very common structures for every single thing that could possibly
go wrong inside of our application, so that our React application can always take the air and work
with it, and somehow, without needing to have a intricate understanding of what's going on behind
the scenes.
We did this by creating this custom area handling middleware.
We needed to transfer some very precise information about all these errors that occurred from the request
handler into the error handling middleware, which is why we subclass the Airbase class into request
validation error and database connection error.
So then any time that we saw these errors up here inside of our middleware, we could check to see if
that error is is of a particular type.
And if it is, then we'll go ahead and interpret that error accordingly.
Again, this really is a good example right here, but we are not quite done yet.
As I mentioned, there's still a couple of improvements we're going to throw on top of this to make
it even easier to use from our different route handlers.
And what we have right now.
So it's still a little bit to go.
Quick pause right here and we'll continue in just a moment.